README.md, before:

# Airflow Kubernetes Job Operator

## What is this?
Airflow currently has a KubernetesPodOperator to kick off and manage pods. This is an excellent starting point but we wanted to achieve a few more things...

1. We thought the writer of the Dag should not have to ever mess with the details of the python kubernetes package, creating python objects to render in kubernetes quickly gets too messy!
2. We wanted an extension of how Airflow uses Jinja to be able to apply it to kubernetes yaml files. In other words, developers should be able to write yaml files as templates they could resuse across tasks or dags
3. For Airflow, the Kubernetes Job type seems like a natural fit, it has recovery and parallelism built in and offloads more work to kubernetes. Less is more!


## Who is it for?
This package makes the assumption that your Airflow is deployed in Kubernetes. But not only that, the principal idea here is that the best way to use Airflow is to bundle the business logic of your Airflow Tasks into an image that you deploy in a Job. Why is this a good way to do things? We've found that Airflow can quickly get unruly if you conflate your business logic along with the execution flow. By forcing Airflow to only be used for managing your work (a fancy crontab) and not have to know anything about the work its managing, you free developers up to focus on just one thing at a time. You dont have to modify Airflow's image to release your Dag if it's missing a dependency and you dont have developers running into each other touching the same codebase. 

TLDR; Ideally this should be one of the only Airflow Operators you ever need! 

## How do I use it?
Ok, that sounds great. Lets get to the meat.

Here are the parameters.

| Parameter | Description | Type    |	
| --------- | ----------- | ------- |
| yaml_file_name | The name of the yaml file, could be a full path | str |
| yaml_write_path | If you want the rendered yaml file written, where should it be? | str |
| yaml_write_filename | If you want the rendered yaml file written, what is the filename? | str |
| yaml_template_fields | If you have variables in your yaml file you want filled out | dict 
| in_cluster | Whether or not Airflow has cluster permissions to create and manage Jobs | bool |
| config_file | The path to the kube configfile | str |
| cluster_context | If you using a config file include the cluster context | str |
| delete_completed_job | Autodelete Jobs that completed without errors | bool |

### Step 1. Install the package
```sh
pip install airflow-kube-job-operator
```

#### Step 1.5 (Optional) Add Role to your Airflow deployment
If you want the Jobs to get created without having to bundle your kubeconfig file somehow into your Airflow pods, you'll need to give Airflow some extra RBAC permissions to handle Jobs within your cluster.

** This is needed if you want to use the option ```in_cluster=True``` **

Here's an example of what you may need
```yaml
kind: Role
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
metadata:
  name: airflow
rules:
  - verbs:
      - create
      - list
      - get
      - watch
      - delete
      - update
      - patch
    apiGroups:
      - ''
      - batch
    resources:
      - pods
      - jobs
      - jobs/status
  - verbs:
      - get
    apiGroups:
      - ''
    resources:
      - pods/log
  - verbs:
      - create
      - get
    apiGroups:
      - ''
    resources:
      - pods/exec

```

### Step 2. Create a template folder for your yaml files
This template folder can be anywhere. It's up to you. But here's a suggestion.

If you have...

```
~/airflow/dags
```
then
```
~/airflow/kubernetes/job
```
Could be a valid choice. 

Lets create a very simple job and put it there.
```yaml
apiVersion: batch/v1
kind: Job
metadata:
  name: countdown
  namespace: <WRITE YOUR AIRFLOW NAMESPACE HERE>
spec:
  template:
    metadata:
      name: countdown
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: counter
        image: centos:7
        command:
         - "bin/bash"
         - "-c"
         - "for i in 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 ; do echo $i ; done"
      restartPolicy: Never
```
Save the above at
```
~/airflow/kubernetes/job/countdown.yaml
```


### Step 3. Create your Dag

First some questions to ask yourself...

    A. How do I want my Dag to have access to kubernetes? 
        i. My Airflow has the above RBAC permissions to make Jobs
        ii. I rather just use my kube config file. It's accessible somewhere in my Airflow pods already (web, worker, and scheduler)

    B. What does my yaml look like? 
        i. I have a simple yaml file. Just create my Job. (The yaml, 'countdown.yaml' above is like this)
        ii. I have a single yaml file for my Job but I want some templated fields filled out. 
        iii. I'm hardcore. I have multiple yaml files templated in the Jinja style so I can reuse my templates across tasks and dags. 


#### **A.i. Using ```in_cluster=True```**

```python
from airflow import DAG
from datetime import datetime, timedelta
from airflow_kjo import KubernetesJobOperator

default_args = {
    'owner': 'airflow',
    'depends_on_past': False,
    'email': ['airflow@example.com'],
    'email_on_failure': False,
    'email_on_retry': False,
    'retries': 1,
    'retry_delay': timedelta(minutes=5),
    'start_date': datetime(2021, 2, 24, 12, 0),
}
with DAG(
    'kubernetes_job_operator',
    default_args=default_args,
    description='KJO example DAG',
    schedule_interval=None,
    catchup=False
) as dag:
    task_1 = KubernetesJobOperator(task_id='example_kubernetes_job_operator',
                                   yaml_file_name='/path/to/airflow/kubernetes/job/countdown.yaml',
                                   in_cluster=True)
```

#### **A.ii. Using ```config_file=/path/to/.kube/config```**
```python
    task_1 = KubernetesJobOperator(task_id='example_kubernetes_job_operator',
                                   yaml_file_name='/path/to/airflow/kubernetes/job/countdown.yaml',
                                   config_file='/path/to/.kube/config',
                                   cluster_context='my_kube_config_context')
```
What is this "my_kube_config_context" business? 
Read about it in the kubernetes config documentation [here](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/organize-cluster-access-kubeconfig/)


#### **B.i. Simple yaml file execution**
In addition to the above Dag styles you could also make use of Airflow's native ```template_searchpath``` field to clean up the Dag a bit.

```python
from airflow import DAG
from datetime import datetime, timedelta
from airflow_kjo import KubernetesJobOperator

default_args = {
    'owner': 'airflow',
    'depends_on_past': False,
    'email': ['airflow@example.com'],
    'email_on_failure': False,
    'email_on_retry': False,
    'retries': 1,
    'retry_delay': timedelta(minutes=5),
    'start_date': datetime(2021, 2, 24, 12, 0),
}
with DAG(
    'kubernetes_job_operator',
    default_args=default_args,
    description='KJO example DAG',
    schedule_interval=None,
    template_searchpath='/path/to/airflow/kubernetes/job'
    catchup=False
) as dag:
    task_1 = KubernetesJobOperator(task_id='example_kubernetes_job_operator',
                                   yaml_file_name='countdown.yaml',
                                   in_cluster=True)
```


#### **B.ii. Simple yaml templating**
Let's make the yaml a little more interesting.
```yaml
apiVersion: batch/v1
kind: Job
metadata:
  name: countdown-templated-{{task_num}}
  namespace: <WRITE YOUR AIRFLOW NAMESPACE HERE>
spec:
  template:
    metadata:
      name: countdown
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: counter
        image: centos:7
        command:
         - "bin/bash"
         - "-c"
         - "{{command}}"
      restartPolicy: Never
```
And save this as
```~/airflow/kubernetes/job/countdown.yaml.tmpl```

We now have the fields ```command``` and ```task_num``` as variables in our yaml file. 
Here's how our Dag looks now...

```python
with DAG(
    'kubernetes_job_operator',
    default_args=default_args,
    description='KJO example DAG',
    schedule_interval=None,
    template_searchpath='/path/to/airflow/kubernetes/job'
    catchup=False
) as dag:
    command = 'sleep 60; for i in 5 4 3 2 1 ; do echo $i ; done'
    task_num = 1
    task_1 = KubernetesJobOperator(task_id='example_kubernetes_job_operator',
                                   yaml_file_name='countdown.yaml.tmpl',
                                   yaml_template_fields={'command': command, 'task_num':task_num},
                                   in_cluster=True)
```


#### **B.iii. Multiple yaml templates**
This is very much up to you how you want your Jinja templates separated, if its valid yaml and valid Jinja, it will render and apply just fine...

Heres an example use case.
1. Create a 'header' template at ```~/airflow/kubernetes/job/countdown_header.yaml.tmpl```
   ```yaml
    apiVersion: batch/v1
    kind: Job
    metadata:
      name: countdown-templated-separated
      namespace: <WRITE YOUR AIRFLOW NAMESPACE HERE>
    {% block spec %}{% endblock %}
   ```
2. Create a 'body' template at ```~/airflow/kubernetes/job/countdown_body.yaml.tmpl```
    ```yaml
    {% extends 'countdown_header.yaml.tmpl' %}
    {% block spec %}
    spec:
    template:
        metadata:
        name: countdown
        spec:
        containers:
        - name: counter
            image: centos:7
            command:
            - "bin/bash"
            - "-c"
            - "{{command}}"
        restartPolicy: Never
    {% endblock %}
    ```

Here's the Dag changes now
```python
    task_1 = KubernetesJobOperator(task_id='example_kubernetes_job_operator',
                                   yaml_file_name='countdown_body.yaml.tmpl',
                                   yaml_template_fields={'command': command},
                                   in_cluster=True)
```

In this situation it may be useful to have Airflow write out the rendered yaml file somewhere.

```python
    task_1 = KubernetesJobOperator(task_id='example_kubernetes_job_operator',
                                   yaml_file_name='countdown_body.yaml.tmpl',
                                   yaml_template_fields={'command': command},
                                   yaml_write_path='/tmp',
                                   yaml_write_filename='rendered.yaml', # will be on the worker pod
                                   in_cluster=True)
```
It could be very useful to have an NFS to share the same filestore across pods for writing these rendered yaml files out. 


## Notes....

-  We need to think about how to add PVC support. If a client's Task relies on a PVC being created, they need a way to add it to their DAG and have it created and deleted as a part of the Job flow. Maybe a KubernetesPVCOperator is better than a parameter solution.

## Contributing

- This is a young project and not yet battle tested. Contributions, suggestions, etc. appreciated.

Commit message:

draft work for stream logs functionality, need to test out

README.md, after:

# Airflow Kubernetes Job Operator

## What is this?
Airflow currently has a KubernetesPodOperator to kick off and manage pods. This is an excellent starting point but we wanted to achieve a few more things...

1. We thought the writer of the Dag should not have to ever mess with the details of the python kubernetes package, creating python objects to render in kubernetes quickly gets too messy!
2. We wanted an extension of how Airflow uses Jinja to be able to apply it to kubernetes yaml files. In other words, developers should be able to write yaml files as templates they could reuse across tasks or dags
3. For Airflow, the Kubernetes Job type seems like a natural fit, it has recovery and parallelism built in and offloads more work to kubernetes. Less is more!


## Who is it for?
This package makes the assumption that your Airflow is deployed in Kubernetes. But not only that, the principal idea here is that the best way to use Airflow is to bundle the business logic of your Airflow Tasks into an image that you deploy in a Job. Why is this a good way to do things? We've found that Airflow can quickly get unruly if you conflate your business logic along with the execution flow. By forcing Airflow to only be used for managing your work (a fancy crontab) and not have to know anything about the work its managing, you free developers up to focus on just one thing at a time. You dont have to modify Airflow's image to release your Dag if it's missing a dependency and you dont have developers running into each other touching the same codebase. 

TLDR; Ideally this should be one of the only Airflow Operators you ever need! 

## How do I use it?
Ok, that sounds great. Lets get to the meat.

Here are the parameters.

| Parameter | Description | Type    |	
| --------- | ----------- | ------- |
| yaml_file_name | The name of the yaml file, could be a full path | str |
| yaml_write_path | If you want the rendered yaml file written, where should it be? | str |
| yaml_write_filename | If you want the rendered yaml file written, what is the filename? | str |
| yaml_template_fields | If you have variables in your yaml file you want filled out | dict 
| in_cluster | Whether or not Airflow has cluster permissions to create and manage Jobs | bool |
| stream_logs | Output logs of the pods to airflow | bool |
| log_tail_line_count | num of lines from end to output | int |
| config_file | The path to the kube configfile | str |
| cluster_context | If you using a config file include the cluster context | str |
| delete_completed_job | Autodelete Jobs that completed without errors | bool |

### Step 1. Install the package
```sh
pip install airflow-kube-job-operator
```

#### Step 1.5 (Optional) Add Role to your Airflow deployment
If you want the Jobs to get created without having to bundle your kubeconfig file somehow into your Airflow pods, you'll need to give Airflow some extra RBAC permissions to handle Jobs within your cluster.

** This is needed if you want to use the option ```in_cluster=True``` **

Here's an example of what you may need
```yaml
kind: Role
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
metadata:
  name: airflow
rules:
  - verbs:
      - create
      - list
      - get
      - watch
      - delete
      - update
      - patch
    apiGroups:
      - ''
      - batch
    resources:
      - pods
      - jobs
      - jobs/status
  - verbs:
      - get
    apiGroups:
      - ''
    resources:
      - pods/log
  - verbs:
      - create
      - get
    apiGroups:
      - ''
    resources:
      - pods/exec

```

### Step 2. Create a template folder for your yaml files
This template folder can be anywhere. It's up to you. But here's a suggestion.

If you have...

```
~/airflow/dags
```
then
```
~/airflow/kubernetes/job
```
Could be a valid choice. 

Lets create a very simple job and put it there.
```yaml
apiVersion: batch/v1
kind: Job
metadata:
  name: countdown
  namespace: <WRITE YOUR AIRFLOW NAMESPACE HERE>
spec:
  template:
    metadata:
      name: countdown
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: counter
        image: centos:7
        command:
         - "bin/bash"
         - "-c"
         - "for i in 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 ; do echo $i ; done"
      restartPolicy: Never
```
Save the above at
```
~/airflow/kubernetes/job/countdown.yaml
```


### Step 3. Create your Dag

First some questions to ask yourself...

    A. How do I want my Dag to have access to kubernetes? 
        i. My Airflow has the above RBAC permissions to make Jobs
        ii. I rather just use my kube config file. It's accessible somewhere in my Airflow pods already (web, worker, and scheduler)

    B. What does my yaml look like? 
        i. I have a simple yaml file. Just create my Job. (The yaml, 'countdown.yaml' above is like this)
        ii. I have a single yaml file for my Job but I want some templated fields filled out. 
        iii. I'm hardcore. I have multiple yaml files templated in the Jinja style so I can reuse my templates across tasks and dags. 


#### **A.i. Using ```in_cluster=True```**

```python
from airflow import DAG
from datetime import datetime, timedelta
from airflow_kjo import KubernetesJobOperator

default_args = {
    'owner': 'airflow',
    'depends_on_past': False,
    'email': ['airflow@example.com'],
    'email_on_failure': False,
    'email_on_retry': False,
    'retries': 1,
    'retry_delay': timedelta(minutes=5),
    'start_date': datetime(2021, 2, 24, 12, 0),
}
with DAG(
    'kubernetes_job_operator',
    default_args=default_args,
    description='KJO example DAG',
    schedule_interval=None,
    catchup=False
) as dag:
    task_1 = KubernetesJobOperator(task_id='example_kubernetes_job_operator',
                                   yaml_file_name='/path/to/airflow/kubernetes/job/countdown.yaml',
                                   in_cluster=True)
```

#### **A.ii. Using ```config_file=/path/to/.kube/config```**
```python
    task_1 = KubernetesJobOperator(task_id='example_kubernetes_job_operator',
                                   yaml_file_name='/path/to/airflow/kubernetes/job/countdown.yaml',
                                   config_file='/path/to/.kube/config',
                                   cluster_context='my_kube_config_context')
```
What is this "my_kube_config_context" business? 
Read about it in the kubernetes config documentation [here](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/organize-cluster-access-kubeconfig/)


#### **B.i. Simple yaml file execution**
In addition to the above Dag styles you could also make use of Airflow's native ```template_searchpath``` field to clean up the Dag a bit.

```python
from airflow import DAG
from datetime import datetime, timedelta
from airflow_kjo import KubernetesJobOperator

default_args = {
    'owner': 'airflow',
    'depends_on_past': False,
    'email': ['airflow@example.com'],
    'email_on_failure': False,
    'email_on_retry': False,
    'retries': 1,
    'retry_delay': timedelta(minutes=5),
    'start_date': datetime(2021, 2, 24, 12, 0),
}
with DAG(
    'kubernetes_job_operator',
    default_args=default_args,
    description='KJO example DAG',
    schedule_interval=None,
    template_searchpath='/path/to/airflow/kubernetes/job'
    catchup=False
) as dag:
    task_1 = KubernetesJobOperator(task_id='example_kubernetes_job_operator',
                                   yaml_file_name='countdown.yaml',
                                   in_cluster=True)
```


#### **B.ii. Simple yaml templating**
Let's make the yaml a little more interesting.
```yaml
apiVersion: batch/v1
kind: Job
metadata:
  name: countdown-templated-{{task_num}}
  namespace: <WRITE YOUR AIRFLOW NAMESPACE HERE>
spec:
  template:
    metadata:
      name: countdown
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: counter
        image: centos:7
        command:
         - "bin/bash"
         - "-c"
         - "{{command}}"
      restartPolicy: Never
```
And save this as
```~/airflow/kubernetes/job/countdown.yaml.tmpl```

We now have the fields ```command``` and ```task_num``` as variables in our yaml file. 
Here's how our Dag looks now...

```python
with DAG(
    'kubernetes_job_operator',
    default_args=default_args,
    description='KJO example DAG',
    schedule_interval=None,
    template_searchpath='/path/to/airflow/kubernetes/job'
    catchup=False
) as dag:
    command = 'sleep 60; for i in 5 4 3 2 1 ; do echo $i ; done'
    task_num = 1
    task_1 = KubernetesJobOperator(task_id='example_kubernetes_job_operator',
                                   yaml_file_name='countdown.yaml.tmpl',
                                   yaml_template_fields={'command': command, 'task_num':task_num},
                                   in_cluster=True)
```


#### **B.iii. Multiple yaml templates**
This is very much up to you how you want your Jinja templates separated, if its valid yaml and valid Jinja, it will render and apply just fine...

Heres an example use case.
1. Create a 'header' template at ```~/airflow/kubernetes/job/countdown_header.yaml.tmpl```
   ```yaml
    apiVersion: batch/v1
    kind: Job
    metadata:
      name: countdown-templated-separated
      namespace: <WRITE YOUR AIRFLOW NAMESPACE HERE>
    {% block spec %}{% endblock %}
   ```
2. Create a 'body' template at ```~/airflow/kubernetes/job/countdown_body.yaml.tmpl```
    ```yaml
    {% extends 'countdown_header.yaml.tmpl' %}
    {% block spec %}
    spec:
    template:
        metadata:
        name: countdown
        spec:
        containers:
        - name: counter
            image: centos:7
            command:
            - "bin/bash"
            - "-c"
            - "{{command}}"
        restartPolicy: Never
    {% endblock %}
    ```

Here's the Dag changes now
```python
    task_1 = KubernetesJobOperator(task_id='example_kubernetes_job_operator',
                                   yaml_file_name='countdown_body.yaml.tmpl',
                                   yaml_template_fields={'command': command},
                                   in_cluster=True)
```

In this situation it may be useful to have Airflow write out the rendered yaml file somewhere.

```python
    task_1 = KubernetesJobOperator(task_id='example_kubernetes_job_operator',
                                   yaml_file_name='countdown_body.yaml.tmpl',
                                   yaml_template_fields={'command': command},
                                   yaml_write_path='/tmp',
                                   yaml_write_filename='rendered.yaml', # will be on the worker pod
                                   in_cluster=True)
```
It could be very useful to have an NFS to share the same filestore across pods for writing these rendered yaml files out. 


## Notes....

-  We need to think about how to add PVC support. If a client's Task relies on a PVC being created, they need a way to add it to their DAG and have it created and deleted as a part of the Job flow. Maybe a KubernetesPVCOperator is better than a parameter solution.

## Contributing

- This is a young project and not yet battle tested. Contributions, suggestions, etc. appreciated.
